Resources | Developing a Google SRE Culture
Resources
 Site Reliability Engineering
Members of the SRE team explain how their engagement with the entire software lifecycle has enabled Google to build, deploy, monitor, and maintain some of the largest software systems in the world.
 The Site Reliability Workbook
The Site Reliability Workbook is the hands-on companion to the bestselling Site Reliability Engineering book and uses concrete examples to show how to put SRE principles and practices to work. This book contains practical examples from Google's experiences and case studies from Google's Cloud Platform customers. Evernote, The Home Depot, The New York Times, and other companies outline hard-won experiences of what worked for them and what didn't.
 Google Cloud Consulting Services
When you choose a Google Cloud consultant, you'll be working hand in hand with experts who will educate your team on best practices and guiding principles for a successful implementation. Our deep technical expertise and services help you unlock business value from the cloud across a range of solutions--including infrastructure, application modernization, data management and analytics, machine learning, and security.
 Site Reliability Engineering: Measuring and Managing Reliability (Coursera)
This course teaches the theory of service level objectives (SLOs), a principled way of describing and measuring the desired reliability of a service. Upon completion, learners should be able to apply these principles to develop the first SLOs for services they are familiar with in their own organizations. Learners will also learn how to use service level indicators (SLIs) to quantify reliability and error budgets to drive business decisions around engineering for greater reliability. The learner will understand the components of a meaningful SLI and walk through the process of developing SLIs and SLOs for an example service.
 DORA DevOps Quick Check
Measure your team's software delivery performance and compare it to the rest of the industry by responding to five multiple-choice questions. The quick check takes less than a minute to complete, and we don't store your answers or personal information. Immediately compare your team's performance to others.
1

