Advanced Logging and Analysis
In this module, we examine some of Google Cloud's advanced logging and analysis capabilities.

Objectives

01 Use Log Explorer features

02

Explain the features and benefits of log-based metrics

03

Define log sinks (inclusion filters and exclusion filters)

04

Explain how BigQuery can be used to analyze logs

05 Use Log Analytics on Google Cloud

Specifically, in this module you learn to:
 Use Log Explorer features  Explain the features and benefits of log-based metrics  Define log sinks (inclusion filters) and exclusion filters  Explain how Big query can be used to analyze logs  Use Log Analytics on Google Cloud

In this section, you'll explore
Cloud Logging overview and architecture Log types and collection Storing, routing, and exporting the logs Query and view logs Using log-based metrics Log Analytics
As we learned earlier, Cloud Logging allows you to store, search, analyze, monitor, and alert on log data and events from Google Cloud. It is a fully managed service that performs at scale and can ingest application and system log data from thousands of VMs. In this section we will go through logging architecture and understand its use cases.

d for

PDF

Cloud Logging helps you understand your application

Gather data from various workloads
Gathers the information required to troubleshoot and understand the workload and application needs

Analyze large volumes of data
Tools like Error Reporting, Log Explorer, and Log Analytics let you drive insights from large sets of data

Route and store logs
Route your logs to the region or service of your choice for additional compliance or business benefits

Get compliance insights
Leverage audit and app logs for compliance patterns and issues

Logs is one of the top most visited sections in Google Cloud console and one of most transitional, which indicated that it is an important component of many scenarios. End users need logs for troubleshooting and information gathering but don't want to be overwhelmed with the data. Logs are the pulse of your workloads and application.
Cloud Logging helps to:  Gather data from various workloads:. This data is required to troubleshoot and understand the workload and application needs.  Analyze large volumes of data: Tools like Error Reporting, Log Explorer, and Log Analytics let you focus from large sets of data.  Route and store logs: Route your logs to the region or service of your choice for additional compliance or business benefits.  Get Compliance Insights: Leverage audit and app logs for compliance patterns and issues. We will cover this in the Audit logs module in detail.

Cloud Logging architecture

Collection
Other Cloud Services Cloud Logging
Automatic Ingestion
Audit Logs Across services

GKE Logs
Kubernetes Engine

Fluentbit-based collector

Compute Engine Process & 3rd Party App Logs

Compute Engine

Ops Agent

Hybrid / Multi-Cloud

Route
Logging API Cloud Logging Cloud Logging Router Cloud Logging
Log Sinks Cloud Logging
Store
Cloud Logging Storage
Optional Log Bucket Customization
Google Cloud Services

Log Based Metrics and Alerts
Visualize and Analyze

Log Analytics Cloud Logging

Dashboards Cloud Monitoring

Log Explorer Cloud Logging

Alert Policies Cloud Monitoring

Error Reporting Cloud Logging

Notifications Cloud Monitoring

Third- Party Export

Third Party Notifications

Cloud Logging architecture consists of the following components:
 Log Collections: These are the places where log data originates. Log sources can be Google Cloud services, such as Compute Engine, App Engine, and Kubernetes Engine, or your own applications.
 Log Routing: The Log Router is responsible for routing log data to its destination. The Log Router uses a combination of inclusion filters and exclusion filters to determine which log data is routed to each destination.
 Log sinks: Log sinks are destinations where log data is stored. Cloud Logging supports a variety of log sinks, including:  Cloud Logging log buckets: These are storage buckets that are specifically designed for storing log data.  Pub/Sub topics: These topics can be used to route log data to other services, such as third-party logging solutions.  BigQuery: This is a fully-managed, petabyte-scale analytics data warehouse that can be used to store and analyze log data.  Cloud Storage buckets: Provides storage of log data in Cloud Storage. Log entries are stored as JSON files.
 Log Analysis: Cloud Logging provides several tools to analyze logs.  Logs Explorer is optimized for troubleshooting use cases with features like log streaming, a log resource explorer and a histogram for visualization.  Error Reporting help users react to critical application errors through automated error grouping and notifications.

 Logs-based metrics, dashboards and alerting provide other ways to understand and make logs actionable.
 Log Analytics feature expands the toolset to include ad hoc log analysis capabilities.

In this section, you'll explore
Cloud Logging overview and architecture Log types and collection Storing, routing, and exporting the logs Query and view logs Using log-based metrics Log Analytics
Let us start with Log Collection and move our way forward to routing and storage and finally visualization.

d for

PDF

Available logs

Platform logs

Component logs

Security logs

User-written logs

Multi / Hybrid Cloud logs

The Google Cloud platform logs visible to you in Cloud Logging vary, depending on which Google Cloud resources you're using in your Google Cloud project or organization. Let's explore the key log categories.
Platform logs are logs written by Google Cloud services. These logs can help you debug and troubleshoot issues, and help you better understand the Google Cloud services you're using. For example, VPC Flow Logs record a sample of network flows sent from and received by VM instances.
Component logs are similar to platform logs, but they are generated by Google-provided software components that run on your systems. For example, GKE provides software components that users can run on their own VM or in their own data center. Logs are generated from the user's GKE instances and sent to a user's Cloud project. GKE uses the logs or their metadata to provide user support.
Security logs help you answer "who did what, where, and when."
 Cloud Audit Logs provide information about administrative activities and accesses within your Google Cloud resources.
 Access Transparency provides you with logs of actions taken by Google staff when accessing your Google Cloud content.
User-written logs are logs written by custom applications and services. Typically, these logs are written to Cloud Logging by using one of the following methods:

 Ops Agent  Cloud Logging API  Cloud Logging client libraries
Multi-cloud logs and Hybrid-cloud logs: These refer to logs from other cloud providers like Microsoft Azure and logs from on-premises infrastructure.

Some logs from Google Cloud resources are collected automatically

Google Kubernetes Engine

Compute Engine

Serverless compute services

Logs written to stdout and stderr are collected automatically

Install the Ops Agent on your VMs

Logs written to stdout and stderr are collected automatically

You can programmatically send application logs to Cloud Logging by using client libraries or by using one of the Logging agents. When you can't use them, or when you only want to experiment, you can write logs by using the gcloud logging write command or by sending HTTP commands to the Cloud Logging API endpoint entries.write.
If you're using one of the agents, then your applications can use any established logging framework to emit logs. For example, in container environments like Google Kubernetes Engine or Container-Optimized OS, the agents automatically collect logs from stdout and stderr. On virtual machines (VMs), the agents collect logs from known file locations or logging services like the Windows Event Log, journald, or syslogd. Serverless compute services like Cloud Run and Cloud Run functions, include simple runtime logging by default. Logs written to stdout or stderr will appear automatically in the Google Cloud console.

In this section, you'll explore
Cloud Logging overview and architecture Log types and collection Storing, routing, and exporting the logs Query and view logs Using log-based metrics Log Analytics
Now that we understand the log collection, let's look at how logs can be routed and exported for long-term storage and analysis.

Log routing and storage
Cloud Logging receives log entries through Cloud Logging API

Audit logs

Service logs

App logs

syslog

Centralized logging API

Platform logs

Sinks contain the inclusion and exclusion filters that
determine the log destination

_Required log sink
Cloud Logging Storage _Required log bucket
400 day retention Non-configurable

_Default log sink
_Default log bucket 30 day retention Configurable

User-defined log sink
User-defined log buckets 30 day retention Configurable

Cloud Storage buckets are different storage entities
than Cloud Logging buckets

Cloud Storage

BigQuery

Pub/Sub

Third party applications

What we call Cloud Logging is actually a collection of components exposed through a centralized logging API.
Log Router: Entries are passed through the API and fed to Log Router. Log Router is optimized for processing streaming data, reliably buffering it, and sending it to any combination of log storage and sink (export) locations.
By default, log entries are fed into one of the default logs storage buckets. Exclusion filters might be created to partially or totally prevent this behavior.
Log sinks run in parallel with the default log flow and might be used to direct entries to external locations.
Log storage: Locations might include additional Cloud Logging buckets, Cloud Storage, BigQuery, Pub/Sub, or external projects.
Inclusion and exclusion filters can control exactly which logging entries end up at a particular destination, and which are ignored completely.

_Required
 Routes admin activity, system event and access transparency logs automatically
 No charges  Retention period:
Non-configurable 400 days  Cannot be deleted or modified

_Required log sink
_Required log bucket
Cloud Logging Storage

_Default log sink
_Default log bucket

For each Google Cloud project, Logging automatically creates two logs buckets: _Required and _Default, and corresponding log sinks with the same names. All logs generated in the project are stored in one of these two locations:
_Required bucket holds Admin Activity audit logs, System Event audit logs, and Access Transparency logs, and retains them for 400 days. You aren't charged for the logs stored in _Required, and the retention period of the logs stored here cannot be modified. You cannot delete or modify this bucket.

_Required
 Routes admin activity, system event and access transparency logs automatically
 No charges  Retention period:
Non-configurable 400 days  Cannot be deleted or modified

_Required log sink
_Required log bucket
Cloud Logging Storage

_Default log sink
_Default log bucket

_Default
 Logs not ingested by _required bucket are routed by the _Default sink
 No charges  Configurable retention period  Cannot be deleted but can be
disabled.

_Default bucket holds all other ingested logs in a Google Cloud project, except for the logs held in the _Required bucket. Standard Cloud Logging pricing applies to these logs. Log entries held in the _Default bucket are retained for 30 days, unless you apply custom retention rules. You can't delete this bucket, but you can disable the _Default log sink that routes logs to this bucket.

Logs Storage and usage
The Logs Storage page displays a summary of statistics for the logs that your project is receiving, including:
 Current total volume: The amount of logs your project has received since the first date of the current month.
 Previous month volume: The amount of logs your project received in the last calendar month.
 Projected volume by EOM: The estimated amount of logs your project will receive by the end of the current month, based on current usage.
You can view the total usage by resource type for the current total volume. The link opens Metrics Explorer, which lets you build charts for any metric collected by your project. For more information on using Metrics Explorer, refer to the documentation.

Log router sinks and sink locations

Logs

Log sink

Logging

Filter

severity >= ERROR resource.type="k8s_container" resource.labels.project_id="XX"

Sink Locations

Log Router sinks can be used to forward copies of some or all of your log entries to non-default locations. Use cases include storing logs for extended periods, querying logs with SQL, and access control.
Here, you see we've started creating a sink by generating a log query for a particular subset of entries. We will pass that subset to one of the available sink locations.
There are several sink locations, depending on need:
 Cloud Logging bucket works well to help pre-separate log entries into a distinct log storage bucket.
 BigQuery dataset allows the SQL query power of BigQuery to be brought to bear on large and complex log entries.
 Cloud Storage bucket is a simple external Cloud Storage location, perhaps for long-term storage or processing with other systems.
 Pub/Sub topic can export log entries to message handling third-party applications or systems created with code and running somewhere like Dataflow or Cloud Run functions.
 Splunk is used to integrate logs into existing Splunk-based system.  The Other project option is useful to help control access to a subset of log
entries.

Create a log sink
The process for creating log sinks mimics that of creating log exclusions. It involves writing a query that selects the log entries you want to export in Logs Explorer, and choosing a destination of Cloud Storage, BigQuery, or Pub/Sub. The query and destination are held in an object called a sink. Sinks can be created in Google Cloud projects, organizations, folders, and billing accounts.

Exclusions: Identify log entries
Use Logs Explorer to build a query that selects the logs you want to exclude. Save the query to use when building the exclusion.

Exclusions: Build the exclusion
Use the Log Explorer query to create an exclusion filter that filters the unwanted entries out of the sink. Give the exclusion a name and add the filter for log entries to exclude. It might be helpful to leave some representative events, depending on the exclusion. Create the exclusion and it will go into effect immediately. Use the Navigation menu to initiate editing of that entity. Take care here, because excluded log events will be lost forever.

Log archiving and analysis
Example pipeline

1
Events

2
Logging

3
Pub/Sub

4
Dataflow

5
BigQuery

Over the next several slides, we will investigate some possible log export processing options.
Here, for example, we are exporting through Pub/Sub, to Dataflow, to BigQuery. Dataflow is an excellent option if you're looking for real-time log processing at scale.
In this example, the Dataflow job could react to real-time issues, while streaming the logs into BigQuery for longer-term analysis.

Archive logs for long-term storage
Example pipeline

1
Events

2
Logging

3
Cloud Storage

Sink pipelines targeting Cloud Storage tend to work best when your needs align with Cloud Storage strengths. For example, long-term retention, reduced storage costs, and configurable object lifecycles.
Cloud Storage features include automated storage class changes, auto-delete, and guaranteed retention.

Exporting back to Splunk
Example pipeline

1
Events

2
Logging

3
Pub/Sub

Splunk

Here, we have an example organization that wants to integrate the logging data from Google Cloud, back into an on-premises Splunk instance. You can ingest logs into Splunk you can either stream logs using Pub/Sub to Splunk Dataflow or using the Splunk Add-on for Google Cloud.
Pub/Sub is one of the options available for exporting to Splunk, or to other third-party System Information and Event Management (SIEM) software packages.

Aggregation levels

Project
A project-level log sink exports all the logs for a specific project.
A log filter can be specified in the sink definition to include/exclude certain log types.

Folder
A folder-level log sink aggregates logs on the folder level.
You can also include logs from children resources (subfolders, projects).

Organization
An organization-level log sink aggregates logs on the organization level.
You can also include logs from children resources (subfolders, projects).

A common logging need is centralized log aggregation for auditing, retention, or non-repudiation purposes.
Aggregated sinks allow for easy exporting of logging entries without a one-to-one setup. The sink destination can be any of the destinations discussed up to now.
There are three available Google Cloud Logging aggregation levels.
We've discussed a project-level log sink. It exports all the logs for a specific project and a log filter can be specified in the sink definition to include or exclude certain log types.
A folder-level log sink aggregates logs on the folder level and can include logs from children resources (subfolders, projects).
And for a global view, an organization-level log sink can aggregate logs on the organization level and can also include logs from children resources (subfolders, projects).

Security log analytics workflow recommends aggregated sinks

Collect
Cloud Logging

Route
Aggregated sink Log Router

Pub/Sub Cloud Storage
Native ingest for subset of Google Cloud logs

Analyze
Log Analytics BigQuery Third-party SIEM Chronicle SIEM

Security practitioners onboard Google Cloud logs for security analytics. By performing security analytics, you help your organization prevent, detect, and respond to threats like malware, phishing, ransomware, and poorly configured assets.
One of the steps in security log analytics workflow is to create aggregate sinks and route those logs to a single destination depending on the choice of security analytics tool, such as Log Analytics, BigQuery, Chronicle, or a third-party security information and event management (SIEM) technology. Logs are aggregated from your organization, including any contained folders, projects, and billing accounts.

Field naming

Log entry field insertId textPayload httpRequest.status httpRequest.requestMethod.GET resource.labels.moduleid jsonPayload.MESSAGE jsonPayload.myField.mySubfield

LogEntry type mapping

BigQuery field name

insertId

insertId

textPayload

textPayload

httpRequest.status

httpRequest.status

httpRequest.requestMethod.[ABC] httpRequest.requestMethod.get

resource.labels.[ABC]

resource.labels.moduleid

jsonPayload.[ABC]

jsonPayload.message

jsonPayload.[ABC].[XYZ]

jsonPayload.myfield.mysubfield

There are a few naming conventions that apply to log entry fields:
 For log entry fields that are part of the LogEntry type, the corresponding BigQuery field names are precisely the same as the log entry fields.
 For any user-supplied fields, the letter case is normalized to lowercase, but the naming is otherwise preserved.
 For fields in structured payloads, as long as the @type specifier is not present, the letter case is normalized to lowercase, but naming is otherwise preserved. For information on structured payloads where the @type specifier is present, see the Payload fields with @type documentation.
You can see some examples on the current slide.

Last three days from syslog and apache_access for a particular gce_instance
SELECT timestamp AS Time, logName as Log, textPayload AS Message
FROM (TABLE_DATE_RANGE(my_bq_dataset.syslog_, DATE_ADD(CURRENT_TIMESTAMP(), -2, 'DAY'), CURRENT_TIMESTAMP())), (TABLE_DATE_RANGE(my_bq_dataset.apache_access_, DATE_ADD(CURRENT_TIMESTAMP(), -2, 'DAY'), CURRENT_TIMESTAMP()))
WHERE resource.type == 'gce_instance' AND resource.labels.instance_id == '1554300700000000000'
ORDER BY time;
Here's a sample query over the Compute Engine logs. It retrieves log entries for multiple log types over multiple days.
The query searches the last three days (today -2) of the syslog and apache-access logs.
The query retrieves results for the single Compute Engine instance ID seen in the where clause.

Failed App Engine requests for the last month
SELECT timestamp AS Time, protoPayload.host AS Host, protoPayload.status AS Status, protoPayload.resource AS Path
FROM (TABLE_DATE_RANGE(my_bq_dataset.appengine_googleapis_com_request_log_, DATE_ADD(CURRENT_TIMESTAMP(), -1, 'MONTH'), CURRENT_TIMESTAMP()))
WHERE protoPayload.status != 200
ORDER BY time
In this BigQuery example, we are looking for unsuccessful App Engine requests from the last month.
Notice how the from clause is constructing the table data range.
The status not equal to 200 is examining the HTTP status for anything that isn't 200. That is to say, anything that isn't a successful response.

In this section, you'll explore
Cloud Logging overview and architecture Log types and collection Storing, routing, and exporting the logs Query and view logs Using log-based metrics Log Analytics
Once you have collected logs and routed to the right destination, now is the time to query and view logs.

Logs Explorer 5 Log fields

1 Action toolbar 2 Query pane 3 Results toolbar

6 Histogram 4 Query results

The Logs Explorer interface lets you retrieve logs, parse and analyze log data, and refine your query parameters. The Logs Explorer contains the following panes:
1. Action toolbar to refine logs to projects or storage views, share a link and learn about logs explorer.
2. Query pane is where you can build queries, view recently viewed and saved queries and a lot more.
3. Results Toolbar can be used to quickly show or hide logs and histogram pane and create a log based metric or alert. Jump to now option helps query and view the current time results.
4. Query results is the details of results with a summary and timestamp that helps troubleshoot further.
5. Log fields pane is used to filter your options based on various factors such as a resource type, log name, project ID, etc,.
6. Histogram is where the query result is visualized as histogram bars, where each bar is a time range and is color coded based on severity.

Ultimately, it's the query that selects the entries
 Start with what you know about the entry you're trying to find.  If it belongs to a resource, a particular log name, or has a known severity, use the
query builder drop-down menus.
Ultimately, it's the query that selects the entries displayed by Logs Explorer. Queries may be created directly with the Logging Query Language (LQL), using the drop-down menus, the logs field explorer, or by clicking fields in the results themselves. Start with what you know about the entry you're trying to find. If it belongs to a resource, a particular log file, or has a known severity, use the query builder drop-down menus. The query builder drop-down menu makes it easy to start narrowing your log choices.
 Resource: Lets you specify resource.type. You can select a single resource at a time to add to the Query builder. Entries use the logical operator AND.
 Log name: Lets you specify logName. You can select multiple log names at once to add to the Query builder. When selecting multiple entries, the logical operator OR is used.
 Severity: Lets you specify severity. You can select multiple severity levels at once to add to the Query builder. When selecting multiple entries, the logical operator OR is used.

Comparison operators to filter queries

[FIELD_NAME] [OP] [VALUE]

= != > < >= <= : :* =~ !~

Equals does not equal numeric ordering has presence search for a pattern search not for a pattern

resource.type="gce_instance" resource.labels.instance_id!="1234567890" timestamp <= "2018-08-13T20:00:00Z" textPayload:"GET /check" jsonPayload.error:* jsonPayload.message =~ "regular expression pattern" jsonPayload.message !~ "regular expression pattern"

The next several slides are included for reference. Advanced queries support multiple comparison operators as seen here.
 The equal and not equal operators help filter values that match or not match a value assigned to a field name. These are useful when you search for a specific resource type or id that you want to evaluate.
 The numeric ordering operators are handy when searching for logs filtering a timestamp or duration.
 The colon operation helps check if a value exists. This is useful when you want to match a substring within a log entry field.
 To test if a missing or defaulted field exists without testing for a particular value in the field, use the :* comparison.

Finding log entries, set the time range
Narrowing the time range helps in quicker processing of queries.
If you're looking for a specific set of log entries and have a rough idea when they would have been generated, start by narrowing to a specific time range. You can select one of the pre-created choices, set a custom range, or jump to a particular time.

Narrow with Logs fields and Histogram
The Log fields panel offers a high-level summary of logs data and provides a more efficient way to refine a query. It shows the count of log entries, sorted by decreasing count, for the given log field. The log field counts correspond to the time range used by the Histogram panel. You can add fields from the Log fields panel to the Query builder to narrow down and refine a query by clicking a field. When a query is run, the log field counts are incrementally loaded as the log entries are progressively scanned. Once the query is complete, which is indicated by the completion of the blue progress bar, you see the total counts for all log fields. The histogram panel lets you visualize the distribution of logs over time. Visualization makes it easier to see trends in your logs data and troubleshoot problems. For example, the severity colors make it easy to spot an increasing number of errors even when the volume of requests is relatively constant. To analyze your log data, point to a bar in the Histogram panel and select Jump to time to drill into a narrower time range. A new query runs with that time-range restriction.

Supported Boolean operators

AND NOT OR

textPayload:("foo" AND "bar") textPayload:("foo" AND NOT "bar") textPayload:("foo" OR "bar")

Ensure to use the all caps for the operator name.
The NOT operator has the highest precedence, followed by OR and AND in that order.
The Boolean operators AND and OR are short-circuit operators.

Advanced queries support the AND, OR, and NOT Boolean expressions for joining queries.
A couple of things to keep in mind include:  Ensure to use the all caps for the operator name.  The NOT operator has the highest precedence, followed by OR and AND in that order.  The Boolean operators AND and OR are short-circuit operators.

The recipe for finding entries
 What do you know about the log entry?  Log filename, resource, and some text
 Full text searches are slow, but may be effective:  "/score called"
 Use indexed SEARCH function for complete text matches, because they perform a case-insensitive match  SEARCH(textPayload, "hello world")
 If possible, restrict text searches to an log field  jsonPayload:"/score called"  jsonPayload.message="/score called"
Here is a simple recipe for finding entries. When you're trying to find log entries, as mentioned earlier, start with what you know: the log filename, resource name, even a bit of the contents of the logged message might work.
Full text searches are slow, but they may be effective. For example, you might search for "/score called".
If possible, restrict text searches to an entry region, like jsonPayload:"/score called", or even better, jsonPayload.message="/score called".
You can use the built-in SEARCH function to find strings in your log data as shown on slide.
 SEARCH([query])  SEARCH([field], [query])
Both forms of the SEARCH function contain a query argument, which must be formatted as a string literal. In the first form, the entire log entry is searched. In the second form, you specify the field in the log entry to search. The Logging query language supports different ways that you can search your log data. When searching for a string, it is more efficient to use the SEARCH function than to perform a global search or a substring search. However, you can't use the SEARCH function to match non-text fields.

Finding entries quickly
 Search on an indexed field httpRequest.status, logName, operation.id, resource.type, timestamp, severity
 Apply constraints on resource.type and resource.labels field resource.type = "gke_cluster" resource.labels.namespace = "my-cool-namespace"
 Be specific on which logs you're searching logName="projects/benkelly-test/logs/apache-access"
 Limit the time range that you're searching timestamp >= "2018-08-08T10:00:00Z" AND timestamp <= "2018-08-08T10:10:00Z"
Some tips on finding log entries quickly:
 Search for specific values of indexed fields, like the name of the log entry, resource type, and resource labels.
 Apply constraints on resource.type and resource.labels, resource.type = "gke_cluster" and resource.labels.namespace = "my-cool-namespace"
 These fields are preferentially indexed in our storage and can make a huge difference for query performance. As seen in the example, be specific on which logs you're searching by referring to it or them by name.
 Limit the time range that you're searching to reduce the log data that is being queried.

In this section, you'll explore
Cloud Logging overview and architecture Log types and collection Storing, routing, and exporting the logs Query and view logs Using log-based metrics Log Analytics
Let's next focus about generating monitoring metrics from logging data.

Logs-based metrics

Count

Log entries

Cloud Logging

Filter

Log-based metric

Cloud Monitoring

Extract

Logs-based metrics derive metric data from the content of log entries.

Logs-based metrics derive metric data from the content of log entries. For example, metrics can track the number of entries that contain specific messages or extract latency information that is reported in the logs. These metrics transform into time series data and use it in Cloud Monitoring Charts and Alerting Policies.
There are two types of log-based metrics:
 System-defined log-based metrics, provided by Cloud Logging can be used by all Google Cloud projects. System-defined log-based metrics are calculated only from logs that have been ingested by Logging. If a log has been explicitly excluded from ingestion by Cloud Logging, it isn't included in these metrics.
 User-defined log-based metrics, created by you to track things in your Google Cloud project that are of particular interest to you. For example, you might create a log-based metric to count the number of log entries that match a given filter.

Logs-based metrics are suitable in different cases

Count the occurrences
Count the occurrences of a message, like a warning or error, in your logs and receive a notification when the number of occurrences crosses a threshold.

Observe trends in your data
Observe trends in your data, like latency values in your logs, and receive a notification if the values change in an unacceptable way.

Visualize extracted data
Create charts to display the numeric data extracted from your logs.

Log-based metrics are suitable when you want to do any of the following:
 Count the occurrences of a message, like a warning or error, in your logs and receive a notification when the number of occurrences crosses a threshold.
 Observe trends in your data, like latency values in your logs, and receive a notification if the values change in an unacceptable way.
 Create charts to display the numeric data extracted from your logs.

Key access control roles
 Logs Configuration Writer  List, create, get, update, and delete log-based metrics.
 Logs Viewer  View existing logs.
 Monitoring Viewer  Read the time series in log-based metrics.
 Logging Admin, Editor, and Owner  Broad-level roles that can create log-based metrics.
A refresher of the key IAM roles that relate to logging and monitoring. First, on the logging side:
 Logs Configuration Writers can list, create, get, update, and delete log-based metrics.
 Logs Viewers can view existing metrics. On the monitoring side, Monitoring Viewers can read the time series in log-based metrics. And finally, Logging Admins, Editors, and Owners are all broad-level roles that can create log-based metrics.

Log-based metric types

+1

01

Counter metrics
Count the number of matched log entries

Distribution metrics
Record the statistical distribution of the extracted log values

Boolean metrics
Record where a log entry matches a specified filter

There are three types of log-based metrics: counter or distribution. All predefined system log-based metrics are the counter type, but user-defined metrics can be either counter, distribution or boolean types.
Counter metrics count the number of log entries matching an advanced logs query. So, if we simply wanted to know how many of our "/score called" entries were generated, we could create a counter.
Distribution metrics record the statistical distribution of the extracted log values in histogram buckets. The extracted values are not recorded individually. Their distribution across the configured buckets is recorded, along with the count, mean, and sum of squared deviations of the values.
Boolean metrics record where a log entry matches a specified filter

Scope of log-based metrics

System-defined log-based metrics apply at the project level

Google Cloud
Organization
Folders Projects Bucket

User-defined log-based metrics can apply either at project or bucket level

System-defined log-based metrics apply at the Google Cloud project level. These metrics are calculated by the Log Router and apply to logs only in the Google Cloud project in which they're received.
User-defined log-based metrics can apply at either the Google Cloud project level or at the level of a specific log bucket:
 Project-level metrics are calculated like system-defined log-based metrics; these user-defined log-based metrics apply to logs only in the Google Cloud project in which they're received.
 Bucket-scoped metrics apply to logs in the log bucket in which they're received, regardless of the Google Cloud project in which the log entries originated.
With bucket-scoped log-based metrics, you can create log-based metrics that can evaluate logs in the following cases:
 Logs that are routed from one project to a bucket in another project.  Logs that are routed into a bucket through an aggregated sink.

A sample test code

//Basic NodeJS app built with the express server app.get('/score', (req, res) => {
//Random score, the contaierID is a UUID unique to each //runtime container (testing was done in Cloud Run). //funFactor is a random number 1-100 let score = Math.floor(Math.random() * 100) + 1;
console.log(`/score called, score:${score}, containerID:${containerID}, funFactor:${funFactor}`);
//Basic message back to browser res.send(`Your score is a ${score}. Happy?`); });

Track the request on the on the '/score' path
If a request matches, generate 1-100 score
Define log entry fields
Send a msg containing the score

Before we create a log-based metric, let's generate some logging entries. Here we see a basic NodeJS app built with the simple and lightweight Express web server. The app is run as a managed container on the Cloud Run service.
The code watches for a request to come into the server on the '/score' path.
When a /score request arrives, the code generates a random score between 1 to 100, and it then creates a log entry.
Earlier code, not shown on this slide, created a unique identifier for the container serving this request in containerID and a random value called funFactor.
The log entry contains the text "/score called", the random score, the container ID, and the fun factor.
Lastly, a basic message, also containing the score, is sent back to the browser.

Filtering entries
Use the Query builder to access project logs. In the list of entries, we've located one of the "/score called" entries. Now we can filter to select those entries by clicking "/score called", and selecting Show matching entries.

Log-based metrics
Imagine we've generated some load on our Cloud Run sample application, and we'd like to use the log events to generate a log-based metric. As defined earlier there are two fundamental log-based metric types, System log-based metrics and User-defined log-based metrics. The latter is what we are creating now. Note the Create Metric button at the top of the interface.

In Logs Explorer
1. Find the log with the requisite data 2. Filter to the required entries 3. Actions | Create Metric 4. Pick a metric type (Counter or Distribution) 5. If Distribution, set configurations 6. You can also add labels
This is an example of a basic flow for creating log-based metrics: 1. You start by finding the log with the requisite data. 2. Then you filter it to the required entries. 3. Create a metric. 4. Pick your metric type (Counter or Distribution). 5. If Distribution, then set configurations. 6. And finally, add labels as needed.

Labels (for example, group-by, or filter)
Like many cloud resources, labels can be applied to log-based metrics. Their prime use is to help with group-by and filtering tasks in Cloud Monitoring.

Labels and logs
 Labels allows for log-based metrics to contain a time series for each label.  Two types of labels applied:
 Default  User-defined  User-defined labels can be either of the following:  The entire contents of a named field in the LogEntry object.  A part of a named field that matches a regular expression.  You can create up to ten user-defined labels per metric.  A label cannot be deleted once created.  Grows the time series significantly.
Labels allow log-based metrics to contain multiple time series--one for each label value.
All log-based metrics come with some default labels and you can create additional user-defined labels in both counter-type and distribution-type metrics by specifying extractor expressions. An extractor expression tells Cloud Logging how to extract the value of the label from log entries. You can specify the label's value as either of the following:
 The entire contents of a named field in the LogEntry object.  A part of a named field that matches a regular expression (regexp).
You can extract labels from the LogEntry built-in fields, such as httpRequest.status, or from one of the payload fields, textPayload, jsonPayload, or protoPayload.
Label with care. A metric can support up to ten user-defined labels, and once created, a metric cannot be removed. Also, each log-based metric is limited to about 30,000 active time series.
Each label can grow the time series count significantly. For example, if your log entries come from 100 resources, such as VM instances, and you define a label with 20 possible values, then you can have up to 2,000 time series for your metric.

Creating user-defined labels
User-defined labels can be created when creating a log-based metric.
User-defined labels can be created when creating a log-based metric. The label form requires:
 Name is an identifier which will be used to label in Monitoring.  Description describes the label. Try to be as specific as possible.  Choose String, Boolean, or Integer for label type.  For Field name, enter the name of the log entry field that contains the value of
the label. This field supports autocomplete.  Extraction regular expression: If the value of your label consists of the field's
entire contents, then you can leave this field empty. Otherwise, specify a regular expression (regexp) that extracts the label value from the field value.

In this section, you'll explore
Cloud Logging overview and architecture Log types and collection Storing, routing, and exporting the logs Query and view logs Using log-based metrics Log Analytics
Next let us take a look at one of the new feature in Cloud Logging, Log Analytics.

Perform analytics on log data using Log Analytics

Log Analytics
Bucket
Powered by

View insights Cloud Logging
BigQuery

Log Analytics gives you the analytical power of BigQuery within the Cloud Logging console and provides you with a new user interface that's optimized for analyzing your logs.
When you create a bucket and activate analytics on it, Cloud Logging makes the logs data available in both the new Log Analytics interface and BigQuery; you don't have to route and manage a separate copy of the data in BigQuery. You can still query and examine the data as usual in Cloud Logging with the Logging query language.

Cloud Logging and Log Analytics use cases

Troubleshooting

Log Analysis

Reporting

Get to the root cause with search, filtering, histogram and suggested searches.

Analyze application performance, data access and network access patterns.

Use the logs data in Log Analytics directly from BigQuery to report on aggregated application.

 Logs are written to the Logging API via client libraries, stdout/fluentbit agent or directly via API,. Logs Explorer helps with troubleshooting and getting to the root cause with search, filter, histogram and suggested search.
 Log Router routes logs to the Logging Sink for the Logs Bucket. Log Analytics, analyze application performance, data access and network access patterns.
 Log Analytics pipeline maps logs to BigQuery tables (JSON, STRING, INT64, RECORD, etc..) and writes to BigQuery. Use the same logs data in Log Analytics directly from BigQuery to report on aggregated application and business data found in logs.

How different is analytics-enabled bucket log data from logs routed to BigQuery
 Log data in BigQuery is managed by Cloud Logging.  BigQuery ingestion and storage costs are included in your Logging costs.  Data residency and lifecycle are managed by Cloud Logging.
The logs data in your analytics-enabled buckets is different than logs routed to BigQuery via traditional export in the following ways:
 Log data in BigQuery is managed by Cloud Logging.  BigQuery ingestion and storage costs are included in your Logging costs.  Data residency and lifecycle are managed by Cloud Logging. You can query your logs on Log Analytics-enabled buckets directly in Cloud Logging via the new Log Analytics UI. The Log Analytics UI is optimized for viewing unstructured log data. You can also access your logs data in BigQuery using a read-only view if you want to combine your logs data with other data in BigQuery. You can turn on or off access to your analytics-enabled buckets in BigQuery by turning on or off the option that connects the logs to BigQuery. When the option is enabled, you can query the logs directly from BigQuery, including joining your logs data with other BigQuery datasets.

Creating a log-analytics enabled bucket
1. Create a log bucket with Log Analytics enabled. 2. Create a sink to route logs to the newly created bucket. 3. Check Upgrade to use Log Analytics.
You can't downgrade the log bucket to remove the use of Log Analytics.
To create an analytics-enabled bucket by using the console: 1. Navigate to Logs Storage. 2. Click Create log bucket. 3. Select Upgrade to use Log Analytics.
Note: Upgrading a bucket to use Log Analytics is permanent. You can't downgrade the log bucket to remove the use of Log Analytics.

Log Analytics use cases

DevOps
Reduce MTTR by using advanced analytical capabilities to diagnose issues.
"Help me quickly troubleshoot an issue by looking at the top count of requests grouped by response type and severity".

Security
Investigate security-related attacks with queries over large volumes of security logs.
"Help me find the all the audit logs associated with a specific user over the past month".

IT or Network Operations
Provide better network insight and management through advanced log aggregation capabilities
"Help me identify network issues for GKE instances using VPC and firewall rules".

Log Analytics is useful in multiple aspects. Let's look at different fields' perspectives, starting with DevOps.
 DevOps:  For a DevOps specialist it is important to quickly troubleshoot an issue that requires to reduce Mean Time to Repair (MTTR). Log Analytics includes capabilities to count the top requests grouped by response type and severity, which allows engineers to diagnose the issues.
 Security  A security personal is interested in finding all the audit logs associated with a specific use over the past month. Log Analytics help better investigate the security -related attacks with queries over large volumes of security data. For more information, refer to the documentation.
 IT or Network Operations  IT or Network Operations is interested in identifying network issues for GKE instances that are using VPC and firewall rules. Log Analytics in this case provides better network insights and management through advanced log aggregation capabilities. For more information, refer to the documentation.

Recap

01 Use Log Explorer features

02

Explain the features and benefits of log-based metrics

03

Define log sinks (inclusion filters and exclusion filters)

04

Explain how BigQuery can be used to analyze logs

05 Use Log Analytics on Google Cloud

Specifically, in this module you learn to:
 Use Log Explorer features  Explain the features and benefits of log-based metrics  Define log sinks, inclusion filters and exclusion filters  Explain how BigQuery can be used to analyze logs  Use Log Analytics on Google Cloud

